== Extension:LDAPProvider ==

This extension provides a common infratructure to connect to a LDAP resource
and run queries against it.

=== Installation ===

This extension can be installed by creating a composer.local.json file in your MediaWiki's installation directory containing the following (or merging this into your current composer.local.json):

<source lang="json">
{
	"require": {
		"mediawiki/ldap-provider": "dev-master"
	},
	"config": {
		"prefer": "source"
	}
}
</source>

Note that <code>"prefer": "source"</code> causes composer to use a clone of the git repository if it can.

=== Configuration ===

In the simplest case where you have a single LDAP server to query, you need to simply specify your LDAP server and the json file. By default LDAPProvider looks for this file in /etc/mediawiki/ldapprovider.json.  If LDAProvider is installed, but cannot find it configuration file, it will fail with an error message.

LDAPProvider contains a sample configuration file that points to the [http://www.forumsys.com/ Forum Systems] [http://www.forumsys.com/tutorials/integration-how-to/ldap/online-ldap-test-server/ online ldap test server] in the included <code>ldapprovider.json</code>.  This file and the server (if it is accessible on your network) will allow you to test the extension without affecting production systems or configuring your own LDAP server.

The contents of <code>ldapprovider.json</code> demonstrates a minimal configuration:

<source lang="json">
{
	"LDAP Demo": {
		"connection": {
				"server": "10.5.5.1",
				"user": "cn=read-only-admin,dc=example,dc=com",
				"pass": "password",
				"basedn": "dc=example,dc=com",
				"searchstring": "uid=USER-NAME,dc=example,dc=com"
		}
	}
</source>

Other configurations are possible.

If you just want to try out the sample configuration, adding the following to your LocalSettings.php should be all that is needed:

<source lang="php">
$LDAPProviderDomainConfigs = "$IP/extensions/LDAPProvider/ldapprovider.json";
</source>

==== Alternative configuration via PHP ====

In <code>LocalSettings.php</code> add
<syntaxhighlight lang="php">
$LDAPProviderDomainConfigProvider = function( $ldapConfig ) {
	return new \MediaWiki\Extension\LDAPProvider\DomainConfigProvider\InlinePHPArray( [
		//Domain name
		'LDAP' => [
			'connection' => [
					'server' => '10.5.5.1',
					'user' => 'cn=read-only-admin,dc=example,dc=com',
					'pass' => 'password',
					'basedn' => 'dc=example,dc=com',
					'searchstring' => 'uid=USER-NAME,dc=example,dc=com'
				]
			]
	] );
};
</syntaxhighlight>

=== Testing ===

Tests are provided.  These can be run using the following in your MediaWiki's installation directory:

	$ ./tests/phpunit/phpunit.php extensions/LDAPProvider
